docs: guide to deploy Kubeapps using Helm (#262)
bitnami/kube-prod-runtime: docs/kubeapps-on-bkpr.md

# Installing Kubeapps on BKPR

> This guide documents the installation of [Kubeapps](https://kubeapps.com/) to your Kubernetes Production Runtime (BKPR) cluster. You will first install the [Helm](https://www.helm.sh/) package manager to the cluster, followed by the installation of Kubeapps using the [Kubeapps Helm chart](https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts/bitnami/kubeapps).

Reviewer: install...on your

install...on the cluster

> ![Kubeapps Application Catalog](images/kubeapps-app-catalog.png)

Reviewer: Would it make sense to move this image to the final step, after the login screen?

> The guide assumes you have a Kubernetes cluster with BKPR already installed. The [BKPR installation guide](install.md) documents the process of installing the BKPR client, followed by installing the BKPR server side components to the cluster.

Reviewer: on the cluster

## Step 1: Install the Helm client

> Follow the instructions in [Helm installation guide](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-the-helm-client) to install the latest release of the Helm binary to your machine.

Reviewer: the Helm...

## Step 2: Install the Tiller server

> Tiller is the server-side component of Helm that runs inside your Kubernetes cluster. To install the Tiller server to the cluster you should use the `helm` client installed by the previous step. However, before we do so, for RBAC enabled clusters we need to create a service account for the Tiller server.

Reviewer: This paragraph switches between calling the reader "you" and "we". Could you make it consistent and also match with the rest of the doc?

> Tiller is the server-side component of Helm that runs inside your Kubernetes cluster. To install the Tiller server to the cluster you should use the `helm` client installed by the previous step. However, before we do so, for RBAC enabled clusters we need to create a service account for the Tiller server.

Reviewer: "To install the Tiller server to the cluster you should use the `helm` client installed by the previous step" -> The previous step has a link to Helm instructions and this paragraph doesn't mention any commands. How would a user know how to install Tiller? We should either add Tiller-specific commands here or link to a doc for Tiller setup or mention that the previous link also covers Tiller setup (if it does).

> Tiller is the server-side component of Helm that runs inside your Kubernetes cluster. To install the Tiller server to the cluster you should use the `helm` client installed by the previous step. However, before we do so, for RBAC enabled clusters we need to create a service account for the Tiller server.

Reviewer: "for RBAC enabled clusters, we need to..." -> Just curious, is RBAC is enabled by default?

Author: RBAC is now enabled by default on most Kubernetes offerings and the two platforms BKPR targets, namely GKE and AKS, both enable RBAC by default.

Reviewer: In that case, I am not sure if we need to qualify with "for RBAC enabled clusters". I would instead add to the assumptions that the user has a BKPR cluster with RBAC enabled.

> For the purposes of this guide we'll create a Kubernetes service account with super-user cluster access (`cluster-admin`). Check out the guide on [Tiller and Role-Based Access Control](https://github.com/helm/helm/blob/master/docs/rbac.md) to learn about restricting the scope of Tiller in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Iirc, this leaves the tiller endpoint exposed within the cluster, with super-user access and with no authentication.  I don't think we can suggest this (at least without putting the "not fit for production" warning back in).

The [kubeapps tiller/TLS docs](https://github.com/kubeapps/kubeapps/blob/master/docs/user/securing-kubeapps.md) look good.  I think we should point to them (or use their example commands) during both the tiller and kubeapps install.  

For bonus points, it would be awesome if we can use cert-manager Certificate objects to generate the self-signed CA+user certs - but I'm not sure how hard that is given the existing `helm install` command line options (wants local paths rather than existing Secrets).  This might be too hard for now however.

Note this would be different if this was a helm-only doc (not kubeapps), since then we'd need to consider other tiller clients beyond kubeapps (and thus talk about per-user tiller installs, per-user certs, etc).

Author: I have whacked the section from the Kubeapps guide.

Begin by creating a file named `rbac-tiller.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: tiller
  namespace: kube-system
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: tiller
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-admin
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: tiller
    namespace: kube-system
```

Create the service account using the `kubectl` command tool:

```bash
kubectl create -f rbac-tiller.yaml
```

> Next, we use the `helm` client to install the Tiller server to the cluster:

Reviewer: "we use" -> "use"

```bash
helm init --service-account tiller
```

> Voila, you have installed Helm to your cluster.

Reviewer: "you have installed Helm to your cluster." -> however the title of the step and the content refers to installing Tiller, while "installing Helm" is actually the subject of Step 1. I would say "you have now installed Tiller on your cluster" or "you have now installed both Helm and Tiller on your cluster".

(subjective) The "voila!" seems unnecessary in a technical document

## Step 3: Install Kubeapps

> Kubeapps is a open-source web-based UI for deploying and managing applications in Kubernetes clusters. It provides you a dashboard to:

Reviewer: you with a dashboard

    - Browse Helm charts from public or your own private chart repositories and deploy them to your cluster
    - Upgrade, manage and delete the applications that are deployed in your cluster
    - Browse and provision external services from the Service Catalog

Kubeapps can be installed using the [Kubeapps Helm chart](https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts/bitnami/kubeapps) from the official [Bitnami charts repository](https://github.com/bitnami/charts).

Begin by configuring the Helm client to use the Bitnami charts repository.

```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
```

> Now you can easily install Kubeapps to your Kubernetes cluster with the following command:

Reviewer: Now you can easily install -> Install

to your cluster -> on your cluster

```bash
helm install --name kubeapps --namespace kubeapps bitnami/kubeapps \
    --set mongodb.metrics.enabled=true \
    --set ingress.enabled=true \
    --set ingress.hosts[0].name=kubeapps.[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE] \
    --set ingress.hosts[0].tls=true \
    --set ingress.hosts[0].tlsSecret=kubeapps-tls \
    --set ingress.hosts[0].certManager=true
```

> The command line flags provided in the above command enable the Ingress resource in the Kubeapps chart and also enable TLS support. Once installed, you will be able to access the Kubeapps dashboard securely (HTTPS) over the internet at `https://kubeapps.[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE]`.

Reviewer: "Internet"

> The command line flags provided in the above command enable the Ingress resource in the Kubeapps chart and also enable TLS support. Once installed, you will be able to access the Kubeapps dashboard securely (HTTPS) over the internet at `https://kubeapps.[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE]`.

Reviewer: Minor nit, but you say "Once installed, you will be able to access the Kubeapps dashboard securely (HTTPS)...". I would qualify that: "Once installed, you will be able to generate an access token and then access the Kubeapps dashboard securely (HTTPS) over the Internet at `https://kubeapps.[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE]`"

> _Please replace the placeholder string `[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE]` in the above command with the DNS zone configured while setting up BKPR in you Kubernetes cluster._

Reviewer: typo: you -> your

> However, if you not would like the dashboard to be accessible externally over the Internet, please disable the Ingress support while installing the chart and follow the post-install instructions to access the dashboard using a proxy connection to the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubeapps requires users to login before making requests.  However, if you would not like the dashboard to be accessible externally over the Internet, please disable the Ingress support while installing the chart.  If Ingress is disabled, you need to follow the Kubeapps post-install instructions to access the dashboard using a proxy connection to the cluster.
```

> The chart parameter `mongodb.metrics.enabled=true` in the above command, enables the Prometheus exporter for MongoDB in the Kubeapps chart.

Reviewer: delete comma after command

> **Tip**:
>

> > When installing applications to your cluster, remember to enable Prometheus exporters in applications that support them. The exported instrumentation data will be automatically scrapped by the Prometheus server installed in the cluster by BKPR and will provide useful insights into the clusters performance.

Reviewer: cluster's performance

install to -> install on

Should we link to our Prometheus component doc here for more info?

> ## Step 4: Generate a access token

Reviewer: a -> an

> The Kubeapps dashboard will prompt you to provide a access token before allowing you to make any changes to the Kubernetes cluster. For the purpose of this guide we will generate a super-user access token using the commands listed below. Check out the [Access Control in Kubeapps](https://github.com/kubeapps/kubeapps/blob/master/docs/user/access-control.md) document to learn about specifying access privileges for users of the dashboard.

Reviewer: (subjective) Check out the -> Refer to the

![Kubeapps Login](images/kubeapps-login.png)

```bash
kubectl create serviceaccount kubeapps-operator
kubectl create clusterrolebinding kubeapps-operator \
  --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
  --serviceaccount=default:kubeapps-operator
```

Get the value of the generated access token with:

```bash
kubectl get secret -o jsonpath='{.data.token}' \
    $(kubectl get serviceaccount kubeapps-operator -o jsonpath=' {.secrets[].name}') \
    | base64 --decode
```

You should now be able to login to the Kubeapps dashboard using the displayed access token and install applications to the cluster using the available Helm charts or by adding your own private Helm chart repositories. Check out the [Kubeapps User Documentation](https://github.com/kubeapps/kubeapps/tree/master/docs/user) to learn more about Kubeapps and its offerings.

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: Minor nit: other headings use sentence case, this uses word case.

Begin by configuring the Helm client to use the Bitnami charts repository.

```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
```

Now you can easily Kubeapps to your Kubernetes cluster with the following command:

```bash
helm install \
    --name kubeapps \
    --namespace kubeapps \
    --set mongodb.metrics.enabled=true \
    bitnami/kubeapps
```

In addition to installing Kubeapps, the `mongodb.metrics.enabled=true` in the command enables the Prometheus exporter for MongoDB.

> **Tip**:
>
> When installing applications to your cluster, remember to enable Prometheus exporters in applications that support them. The exported instrumentation data will be automatically scrapped by the Prometheus server installed in the cluster by BKPR and will provide useful insights into the clusters performance.

Access to the Kubeapps dashboard installed using the above command is only possible using a proxy connection to the cluster. Please follow the instructions displayed in the output of the command for accessing the dashboard.

However, if you would like the dashboard to be accessible externally over the Internet, you can do so with the following command:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: Given we have functional TLS (with BKPR), is there a reason we don't _only_ suggest this install command?
(as in: is kubeapps auth insufficient for a public endpoint like this? If so, we should warn in the above somewhere; if not, we could just suggest using it by default?)

Author: I was being conservative to the idea of exposing the dashboard to the world. I've take your advice and made it the default now, while still pointing out how it could be disabled.

# Installing Kubeapps on BKPR

> This guide documents the installation of [Kubeapps](https://kubeapps.com/) on the Kubernetes Production Runtime (BKPR) cluster. You will first install the [Helm](https://www.helm.sh/) package manager to the cluster, followed by the installation of Kubeapps using the [Kubeapps Helm chart](https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts/bitnami/kubeapps).

Reviewer: Should be "Bitnami Kubernetes Production..."

The guide assumes you have a Kubernetes cluster with BKPR already installed. The [BKPR installation guide](install.md) documents the process of installing the BKPR client, followed by installing the BKPR server side components on the cluster.

> ## Step 1: Install the Helm client

Reviewer: Instead of linking to Helm docs, do you want to link to our docs instead? We cover all this in https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/get-started-kubernetes/#step-4-install-and-configure-helm-and-tiller

Reviewer: ...but check once that it covers all your needs

Author: The linked docs do not document installing tiller for secure access. I would leave this as-is.

Follow the instructions in the [Helm installation guide](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-the-helm-client) to install the latest release of the Helm binary to your machine.

## Step 2: Install Tiller securely

> Tiller is the server-side component of Helm that runs inside your Kubernetes cluster. Follow the Helm documentation to [configure role-based access control](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#role-based-access-control) and [install Tiller securely to the cluster](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#using-ssl-between-helm-and-tiller).

Reviewer: See previous

    - Browse Helm charts from public or your own private chart repositories and deploy them to your cluster
    - Upgrade, manage and delete the applications that are deployed in your cluster
    - Browse and provision external services from the Service Catalog

Kubeapps can be installed using the [Kubeapps Helm chart](https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts/bitnami/kubeapps) from the official [Bitnami charts repository](https://github.com/bitnami/charts).

Begin by configuring the Helm client to use the Bitnami charts repository.

```bash
helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
```

Install Kubeapps on your Kubernetes cluster with the following command:

```bash
helm install --tls \
  --name kubeapps --namespace kubeapps \
  --set tillerProxy.tls.ca="$(cat ca.cert.pem)" \
  --set tillerProxy.tls.key="$(cat helm.key.pem)" \
  --set tillerProxy.tls.cert="$(cat helm.cert.pem)" \
  --set ingress.enabled=true \
  --set ingress.certManager=true \
  --set ingress.hosts[0].name=kubeapps.[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE] \
  --set ingress.hosts[0].tls=true \
  --set ingress.hosts[0].tlsSecret=kubeapps-tls \
  --set mongodb.metrics.enabled=true \
  bitnami/kubeapps
```

> The command line flags provided in the above command enable the Ingress resource in the Kubeapps chart and also enable TLS support. Once installed, you will be able to generate an access token and then access the Kubeapps dashboard securely (HTTPS) over the Internet at `https://kubeapps.[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE]`.

Reviewer: The command line flags provided in the above command -> repeats command twice. Maybe "The parameters in the above command"

_Please replace the placeholder string `[YOUR-BKPR-ZONE]` in the above command with the DNS zone configured while setting up BKPR in your Kubernetes cluster._

Kubeapps requires users to login before making requests.  However, if you would not like the dashboard to be accessible externally over the Internet, please disable the Ingress support while installing the chart.  If Ingress is disabled, you need to follow the Kubeapps post-install instructions to access the dashboard using a proxy connection to the cluster.

The chart parameter `mongodb.metrics.enabled=true` in the above command enables the Prometheus exporter for MongoDB in the Kubeapps chart.

> **Tip**:
>
> When installing applications on your cluster, remember to enable Prometheus exporters in applications that support them. The exported instrumentation data will be automatically scrapped by the Prometheus server installed in the cluster by BKPR and will provide useful insights into the cluster's performance. Refer to the [Monitoring stack](components.md#monitoring-stack) documentation to learn more.

## Step 4: Generate an access token

> The Kubeapps dashboard will prompt you to provide a access token before allowing you to make any changes to the Kubernetes cluster. For the purpose of this guide you will generate a super-user access token using the commands listed below. Refer to the [Access Control in Kubeapps](https://github.com/kubeapps/kubeapps/blob/master/docs/user/access-control.md) document to learn about specifying access privileges for users of the dashboard.

Reviewer: an access
